hi it's angel today I wanted to share
with you my famous Chinese Mapo tofu
dish now I'm calling it famous because
every time I cook it I always get rave
reviews and if you're a finicky mediator
who doesn't normally like tofu well you
might be pleasantly surprised because
this dish is really hearty since we're
cooking the sauce from scratch we can
actually control the level of spiciness
so we can make it super spicy or mild so
with that let's get started
first the ingredients start with one
pound of lean ground beef you can also
use ground pork or ground turkey but I
really like ground beef in this dish one
block of fresh soft tofu 2 to 3 stalks
of green onions for garnish 1 small or
medium sized yellow onion 3 to 5 garlic
cloves and 2 and a quarter cups of
chicken broth for our sauce base 2
tablespoons of soy sauce I'm using
low-sodium but you can use regular as
well two heaping tablespoons of black
bean garlic sauce and for the spiciness
we will be using 2 tablespoons of chili
sauce feel free to use half as much if
you prefer a milder sauce 1 tablespoon
of cane sugar to balance out the
spiciness and 2 tablespoons of
cornstarch to thicken the sauce finally
we'll need salt and pepper to taste
next it's prep time cut the tofu into
small bite-sized cubes like this about a
half an inch per piece next dice your
yellow onion into small chunky pieces
since I'm using a medium size onion I'm
only going to use half if you have a
smaller onion feel free to use the whole
piece next chop some green onions for
garnish finely mince and peel your
garlic cloves I've gone ahead to use a
garlic mincer which helps give that nice
even minced consistency
next let's prep our thickening agent
take the cornstarch and in a small bowl
mix the cornstarch in with a bit of the
chicken stock just make sure to mix
completely so you have a smooth liquid
now let's cook
start by preheating your pan on a medium
high heat and don't forget to turn your
fan on
once your pants been preheated go ahead
and add about a tablespoon of oil to the
pan you don't need much because there's
already enough oils from the meat that
we're going to be adding
now go ahead and add your meat and stir
and break it up into pieces in the pan
once the meat is broken up into pieces
go ahead and season with your sea salt
and pepper to taste
next to give the meat some flavor we're
going to add our minced garlic
after that I like to add half of the
yellow onions reserving the other half
for later the onions that we just added
are for flavor while the ones at the end
will be saved for crunchy texture next
add two tablespoons or two splashes of
your soy sauce
then the black bean garlic sauce
and also the chilli sauce
next carefully add in your chicken stock
and finally the cane sugar
stur completely until well mixed then
set aside to simmer for five minutes
so now that I put the chicken broth in
there I wanted to share with you guys a
little bit of a secret so what I want to
do is I'm letting it simmer for about
five minutes
the reason why I want to let it simmer
is because I want that she can rock to
reduce and it's going to have a really
nice flavor after that reduction and the
water kind of a baffle race trust me on
this
and since you never know if it's going
to taste good I highly recommend you
stop to taste pet
after about five minutes it's time to
thicken the sauce stir in the remaining
yellow onions and then add in your corn
starch just remember to give the corn
starch mixture a good stir before adding
it
now quickly stir which will thicken our
sauce
once the sauce is thickened up a bit go
ahead to gently add in our tofu
once the tofu is mixed in you can go
ahead and turn off the heat at this
point as a final step mix in the green
onions
I hope you guys have a chance to try
this recipe at home please let me know
if you like it as much as I do and I
will see you guys next time
by
smells so good already thanks for
watching